feat(ses): update lockdown init and enable Hermes VM (#2723)
endojs/endo: packages/ses/docs/lockdown.md

Author: mention this new option is backwards-compatible with users with a strict CSP, but displays a warning

| `reporting`                      | `'platform'`     | `'console'` `'none'`                   | where to report warnings ([details](#reporting-options))
| `unhandledRejectionTrapping`     | `'report'`       | `'none'`                               | handling of finalized unhandled rejections ([details](#unhandledrejectiontrapping-options)) |
| `evalTaming`                     | `'safeEval'`     | `'unsafeEval'` `'noEval'`              | `eval` and `Function` of the start compartment ([details](#evaltaming-options)) |

> | `hostEvaluators`                 | `'all'`          | `'none'` `'no-direct'`                 | handling of sloppy and indirect eval ([details](#hostevaluators-options)) |

Reviewer: not true AFAIR - current default is undefined with legacy behavior.

Author: `undefined` is not a currently supported `getEnvironmentOption`

https://github.com/endojs/endo/blob/a7954e962f50145be98ea0aca556b83532f684e1/packages/env-options/src/env-options.js#L65

so the current `_legacy` default represents that, not surfaced in docs since it's under-the-hood

(equivalent to `all`, but doesn't error with a strict CSP to make it backwards-compatible)

> | `hostEvaluators`                 | `'all'`          | `'none'` `'no-direct'`                 | handling of sloppy and indirect eval ([details](#hostevaluators-options)) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| `reporting`                      | `LOCKDOWN_REPORTING`                         |                       |
| `unhandledRejectionTrapping`     | `LOCKDOWN_UNHANDLED_REJECTION_TRAPPING`      |                       |
| `evalTaming`                     | `LOCKDOWN_EVAL_TAMING`                       |                       |

> | `hostEvaluators`                 | `LOCKDOWN_HOST_EVALUATORS`                   |                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

lockdown({ evalTaming: 'unsafe-eval' });
```

> Also `'unsafe-eval'` and `no-eval` allow us to initialize SES when no direct eval is available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also `'unsafe-eval'` and `'no-eval'` allow us to initialize SES when no direct eval is available.
```

Reviewer 2: @leotm , I don't see the single quotes around no-eval

LOCKDOWN_EVAL_TAMING=unsafe-eval
```

## `hostEvaluators` Options

> **Background**: Hermes is a JavaScript engine that does not yet support direct `eval()` nor the `with` statement. The SES `evalTaming` default option `"safeEval"` uses multiple nested `with` statements to create a restricted scope chain, so on Hermes we must run under the `"unsafeEval"` option. However SES cannot initialize unless 'eval' is the original intrinsic 'eval', suitable for direct-eval (dynamically scoped eval), which is where we introduce the `hostEvaluators` option `"no-direct"`.

Author: update

```js

> lockdown(); // Warning: `SES Please now use the 'hostEvaluators' option. In the future not specifying 'none' will error under strict CSP.`

Author: ```suggestion
lockdown(); // hostEvaluators defaults to 'all' and warns `SES Please now use the 'hostEvaluators' option. In the future not specifying 'none' will error under strict CSP.` if not set
```

// or

> lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'all' }); // SES fails to initialize if direct-eval is not the original intrinsic 'eval'

Author: ```suggestion
lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'all' }); // SES fails to initialize if direct-eval is not the original intrinsic 'eval' or evaluators are not allowed to execute
```

// vs
lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'none' }); // SES initializes when evaluators are not allowed to execute (e.g. a strict CSP)
// vs

> lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // SES initializes without direct-eval (e.g. on Hermes)

Author: ```suggestion
lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // SES initializes if direct-eval is not the original intrinsic 'eval'
```

```

Further

* `'all'`: asserts evaluators are allowed to execute
* `'none'`: asserts evaluators are *not* allowed to execute
* `'no-direct'`: asserts direct-eval is not available

Hermes example

```js

> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'unsafeEval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // Recommended on Hermes

Author: update

> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'unsafeEval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // Recommended on Hermes

Author: add `no-eval` example

```

However, attempting `"safeEval"` with `"no-direct"` we fail early, due to Hermes' lack of `with` statement

```js

> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'safeEval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // Fail: `lockdown(): option evalTaming: safeEval is incompatible with hostEvaluators: no-direct`

Author: ```suggestion
lockdown({ evalTaming: 'safe-eval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // Fail: `lockdown(): option { evalTaming: 'safe-eval' } is incompatible with { hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }`
```

> ```js
> lockdown(); // To avoid breaking old programs, defaults under-the-hood to deprecated option _legacy_, which works as before.
> // Warning: `SES Please now use the 'hostEvaluators' option, which will default to 'all'. In the future, not specifying 'none' will fail with a strict CSP.`
> // or
> lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'all' }); // SES fails to initialize if direct eval is not the original intrinsic 'eval'
> // vs
> lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'none' }); // SES initializes when evaluators are not allowed to execute (e.g. a strict CSP)
> // vs
> lockdown({ hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // SES initializes if direct eval is not the original intrinsic 'eval' (e.g. Hermes)  
> ```
> 
> Further
> 
> * `'all'`: asserts evaluators are allowed to execute
> * `'none'`: asserts evaluators are *not* allowed to execute
> * `'no-direct'`: asserts direct eval is not available
> 
> Hermes examples
> 
> ```js
> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'unsafe-eval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' });
> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'no-eval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' });
> ```
> 
> However, attempting `'safe-eval'` with `'no-direct'` we fail early that they are incompatible, since safe eval taming requires direct eval (and the `with` statement).
> 
> ```js
> lockdown({ evalTaming: 'safe-eval', hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }); // Fail: `lockdown(): option { evalTaming: 'safe-eval' } is incompatible with { hostEvaluators: 'no-direct' }`
> ```
> 
> Since compartments [currently](https://github.com/endojs/endo/blob/fbd97e76fea686c9dfae7998a847ae9b36f2fc08/packages/ses/src/compartment.js#L337-L342) evaluate using `'safe-eval'` by default, we throw a descriptive error on attempt to `.evaluate` an instance: `'Compartment evaluation not supported without direct eval.'` This will be surfaced once the Compartment global class is supported on Hermes after `lockdown` (incompatible with `removeUnpermittedIntrinsics`).
> 
> If `lockdown` does not receive a `hostEvaluators` option, it will respect
> `process.env.LOCKDOWN_HOST_EVALUATORS`.
> 
> ```console
> LOCKDOWN_HOST_EVALUATORS=all
> LOCKDOWN_HOST_EVALUATORS=none
> LOCKDOWN_HOST_EVALUATORS=no-direct
> ```
> 
> Once Hermes engine supports direct eval, `'no-direct'` will no longer be required.
> Currently there is an open feature request and open pull request targeting Static Hermes.
> 
> * <https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/957>
>   * <https://github.com/facebook/hermes/pull/1515>
> 
> You can also test and verify `lockdown` completing on this change by [building and running](https://github.com/facebook/hermes/blob/static_h/doc/BuildingAndRunning.md) Static Hermes on the following fork for example:
> <https://github.com/leotm/hermes/tree/ses-lockdown-test-static-hermes-compiler-vm>
> 
> Once Hermes engine supports direct eval and the `with` statement, `evalTaming: 'safe-eval'` will be possible.
> Currently there is an open feature request and open pull request targeting Static Hermes.
> 
> * <https://github.com/facebook/hermes/issues/1056>
>   * <https://github.com/facebook/hermes/pull/1571>
> 
> There is also an open alternate idea to sandbox `Compartment` *without* the `with` statement.
> 
> * <https://github.com/endojs/endo/discussions/1944>
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
